#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass dino
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme newcent
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy

\layout Title

DINO v0.9 Reference Manual
\layout Author


\begin_inset Formula \( \copyright  \)
\end_inset 

 1998-2001 Ansgar Philippsen
\layout Date

Manual Version 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
today
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Chapter

Syntax Definitions
\layout Section

Basics
\layout Standard

Object oriented: target command parameters
\layout Section

Properties
\layout Standard

set prop=value, prop2=value2
\layout Section

Selection
\layout Standard

EXPR := PROP OP VAL[,VAL2]
\layout Standard

VAL := VAL1[:VAL2]
\layout Chapter

Command Reference
\layout Section

Shell
\layout RefEntry

!
\layout Syntax

!SHELLCOMMAND
\layout Standard

Abbreviation for the shell command 
\family typewriter 
system
\family default 
.
\layout RefEntry

@
\layout Syntax

@FILE
\layout Standard

Causes to specified 
\family typewriter 
FILE
\family default 
 to be parsed, each line interpreted as a command.
\layout RefEntry

$
\layout Syntax

$VAR
\layout Standard

Expands variable 
\family typewriter 
VAR
\family default 
 to its value.
\layout RefEntry

//
\layout Syntax

// COMMENT
\layout Standard

Ignores the rest of the line up to a newline.
 
\layout RefEntry


\backslash 

\layout Syntax


\backslash 
X
\layout Standard

Protects character 
\family typewriter 
X
\family default 
 from being interpreted, e.g.
 a newline in a script.
\layout RefEntry

[]
\layout Syntax

[SUBCOMMAND]
\layout Standard

Nested commands.
 The expression contained in 
\family typewriter 
SUBCOMMAND
\family default 
 is first evaluated as a command by itself, and then, if no error occured,
 the result replaces the expression with the brackets.
\layout RefEntry

alias
\layout Syntax

alias ABBR EXPR
\layout Standard

If
\family typewriter 
 ABBR
\family default 
 appears as the first word on a line or in a subcommand, it is replaced
 by 
\family typewriter 
EXPR
\family default 
.
 
\family typewriter 
ABBR
\family default 
 must be a single word, 
\family typewriter 
EXPR
\family default 
 can be several words.
\layout RefEntry

bench
\layout Syntax

bench
\layout Standard

Continuously forces graphics updates and writes out how many frames per
 second can be displayed (FPS).
 Can be used to qualitatively benchmark DINO's / OpenGL's graphics capabilities.
 Calling 
\family typewriter 
bench
\family default 
 a second time will turn it off again.
\layout RefEntry

break
\layout Syntax

break
\layout Standard

Stops script execution and returns to the caller.
 Has no effect interactively.
\layout RefEntry

cd
\layout Syntax

cd PATH
\layout Standard

Changes the working directory to PATH
\layout RefEntry

clear
\layout Syntax

clear
\layout Standard

Removes all entries from the RPN stack
\layout RefEntry

dup
\layout Syntax

dup
\layout Standard

Duplicates the topmost RPN stack entry
\layout RefEntry

echo
\layout Syntax

echo EXPRESSION [> file]
\layout Standard

prints 
\family typewriter 
EXPRESSION
\family default 
, evaluating all subcommands and expanding all variables first.
 Output can be optionally redirected to a 
\family typewriter 
FILE
\family default 
.
\layout RefEntry

exit
\layout Syntax

exit
\layout Standard

See 
\family typewriter 
quit
\layout RefEntry

opr
\layout Syntax

opr OP1 [OP2 ...]
\layout Standard

Applies one or several operators to the RPN stack.
 See Table X for a list of all operators.
\layout RefEntry

pause
\layout Syntax

pause
\layout Standard

Halts script execution until a key is pressed.
 If the key is 
\family typewriter 
ESC
\family default 
, script execution will be aborted.
 Has no effect interactively.
\layout RefEntry

peek
\layout Syntax

peek
\layout Standard

Returns the topmost value from the RPN stack without removing it.
\layout RefEntry

pop
\layout Syntax

pop [VAR1 [VAR2] ...]
\layout Standard

Returns and removes the topmost value(s) from the RPN stack, optionally
 writing them in the variables given after the 
\family typewriter 
pop
\family default 
 command.
 If no variable is given, returns and removes only the topmost value.
\layout RefEntry

push
\layout Syntax

push W1 [W2 ...]
\layout Standard

Pushes all words (from left to right) onto the RPN stack, the rightmost
 word will be on top.
\layout RefEntry

pwd
\layout Syntax

pwd
\layout Standard

Displays current working directory
\layout RefEntry

quit
\layout Syntax

quit
\layout Standard

See exit
\layout RefEntry

set
\layout Syntax

set VAR EXPR
\layout Standard

Assigns EXPR to the variable VAR
\layout RefEntry

show
\layout Syntax

show
\layout Standard

Lists the current RPN stack on the terminal.
\layout RefEntry

swap
\layout Syntax

swap
\layout Standard

Swaps the two topmost entries on the RPN stack
\layout RefEntry

system
\layout Syntax

system EXPR
\layout Standard

Executes 
\family typewriter 
EXPR
\family default 
 as a shell command and returns after it has completed.
\layout RefEntry

unalias
\layout Syntax

unalias ABBR
\layout Standard

Removes the alias entry for 
\family typewriter 
ABBR
\family default 
.
\layout RefEntry

unset
\layout Syntax

unset VAR
\layout Standard

Removes the variable VAR.
\layout RefEntry

var
\layout Syntax

var
\layout Standard

Lists all currently defined variables.
\layout Section

Scene
\layout RefEntry

autoslab
\layout Syntax

scene autoslab
\layout Standard

Adjusts the front and back clipping plane to the minimal and maximal z value
 of the currently displayed objects.
\layout RefEntry

center
\layout Syntax

scene center {x,y,z}
\layout Standard

Centers the global rotation on the coordinates provided by 
\family typewriter 
{x,y,z}
\layout RefEntry

get
\layout Syntax

scene get PROP
\layout Standard

Returns the scene property PROP.
\layout RefEntry

grab
\layout Syntax

scene grab INPUTDEVICE
\layout Standard

Grabs INPUTDEVICE.
\layout RefEntry

hide
\layout Syntax

scene hide
\layout Standard

Turns display off.
 
\layout RefEntry

hidecp
\layout Syntax

scene hidecp
\layout Standard

Hides the marker for the current position stored in 
\family typewriter 
$CP
\family default 
.
\layout RefEntry

message
\layout RefEntry

mono
\layout RefEntry

peek
\layout RefEntry

pop
\layout RefEntry

push
\layout RefEntry

reset
\layout RefEntry

rot
\layout RefEntry

set
\layout RefEntry

show
\layout RefEntry

showcp
\layout RefEntry

spin
\layout RefEntry

split
\layout RefEntry

stereo
\layout RefEntry

trans
\layout RefEntry

write
\layout Section

Database Manager
\layout RefEntry

delete
\layout RefEntry

list
\layout RefEntry

load
\layout RefEntry

new
\layout RefEntry

rename
\layout RefEntry

save
\layout Section

General Dataset and Object Commands
\layout Subsection

General Dataset Commands
\layout RefEntry

new
\layout RefEntry

del
\layout RefEntry

transform
\layout RefEntry

grab
\layout Subsection

General Object Commands
\layout RefEntry

set
\layout RefEntry

renew
\layout RefEntry

render
\layout RefEntry

material
\layout Section

Structure Dataset and Objects
\layout Section

Scalar Field Dataset and Objects
\layout Section

Surface Dataset and Objects
\layout Section

Topograph Dataset and Objects
\layout Section

Geometric Primitives and Objects
\layout Chapter*

Index
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \printindex{}

\end_inset 


\the_end
